# Virtual Bulletin Board

#### DISTINCTIVENESS AND COMPLEXITY: When brainstorming for ideas on what to build for my final project, I wanted something that would be useful to people but simple to use at the same time. That is why I settled on a notes app. Most notes apps nowadays are becoming more and more like word processing apps in the sense that they give a lot of editorial power to the user in terms of fonts, colors, page setup, etc. My idea was different from this because I did not want an app that was complicated for the user to navigate. This led me to make a virtual bulletin board.

# In this virtual bulletin board, the user is given six different colors of “sticky notes” in which they can “pin” to the board and leave notes and reminders for themselves. All notes are saved automatically regardless of whether the user refreshes the page or logs out and logs back in. Of course, there is limited space on the bulletin board, so if the user has old notes pinned, they can simply click the note they want to delete and it will be removed from the board.

# This virtual bulletin board is unlike anything we have done in this course and honestly, unlike anything I have ever seen before. Our projects in the course have utilized many javascript functionalities, but upon researching other ones I could use, I stumbled upon the “drag and drop” events in javascript. Our past projects and lectures have included click events and key events, but we did not explore drag, drop, dragover, dragstart or dragleave events. These caught my attention and so I wanted to incorporate them into my app. Originally, users were going to be able to create new notes through the click of a button, but after discovering drag and drop functionality, I wanted to make the app more realistic where users could drag a sticky note of their choice onto the board and pin it themselves. This was a very difficult function to incorporate into my app as I have never used anything like it before in previous projects. I had to have multiple event handlers on multiple objects so that the app could be more interactive. Each sticky note had to be a draggable object and had to trigger the event handlers on each empty div on the bulletin board to allow the user to only place notes on EMPTY spaces. This meant I had to check if a div that was dragged over contained a note already or not. Not only that, but I also included visibility aspects where each empty div that was being dragged over by a sticky note would light up green and would then return to normal after a sticky was placed or the sticky note left its boundaries (unfortunately, my screen capture did not catch this in my video for some reason, but I ensure you that it works).

# Although the drag and drop functionality was a great new and complex feature of this app, the loading of the notes upon refresh and login was also a feature that took many hours to incorporate. Every time the user refreshed the page or logged out then logged back in, I had to ensure that each note they saved on the board was still there. Sure, storing the note text in a django model and loading it up upon refresh is nothing new or complex to us, however, it was much more complex than that. I had to ensure that each note contained the correct text, was the correct color, had a pin at the top, and was also in the exact spot on the bulletin board as the user left it. This took a lot of work and was one of the most time-consuming aspects of the project (aside from the drag and drop functionality). Although we did a similar thing in the emails and posts projects where we loaded all of the user’s emails on each page refresh, we did not incorporate the sort of 2D aspect of positioning that my program involved and this is what made it so much more difficult.



#### MY FILES: Although there were not a lot of different files included in the project, each file contained a lot of information. The login and register templates were similar to those in our previous projects, and the layout template simply included a navbar, however the index template was quite complex. In the case the user was not logged in, the index template displayed a bulletin board prompting the user to register or login to get started where they could then navigate to the ‘register’ and ‘login’ buttons to do so. When the user logged in, they were faced with the main homepage (still part of the index template) where they would see six sticky notes that they could drag onto the bulletin board in the middle of the screen. The index template included all of the HTML required to display everything seen on screen. The styles of each object were stored in the styles.css file in which the visual properties of each object were stored. The bulk of the code is in the script.js file. This handled all of the user's actions and what to do upon each action (dragging notes, writing new notes, deleting notes, pinning notes, etc.). In terms of the backend, I used the base Django files (urls.py, models.py, and views.py) to store and load the information in the app. The login, logout and register models handled those three actions and stored user information like their username and password. The index model handled all information sent to the index page to be displayed. Three other models were included in order to handle fetch requests to make a new note, delete a note, or get the existing notes.



#### HOW TO RUN: Running my application is quite simple. At the moment, it is handled on a local server through VSCode, therefore, the user would have to run the app using command line prompts. If I were to host this website online, it would run automatically and users would be able to navigate through the app with ease.


